Israeli troops have stormed the largest
functioning Hospital in Gaza now the
Army describes the operation at the NASA
Hospital in the southern city of Han
yunes as precise and limited it says
there is credible intelligence that
Hamas which carried out the October the
7th Terror attacks held hostages in the
complex mobile phone footage appears to
show Israeli forces entering NASA
Hospital in hunis the main medic
facility in southern Gaza the Israeli
military says it was a limited operation
aimed at finding hostages remains we
have credible intelligence from a number
of sources including from released
hostages indicating that Hamas held
hostages at the NASA Hospital in kanun
and that there may be bodies of our
hostages in the NASA Hospital
facility further south some 1.5 million
displaced Palestinians are now living in
cramped conditions in the Border city of
Rafa where Israel is still believed to
be planning an assault but International
warnings are growing louder large scale
military op operations in densely
populated areas risks extensive civilian
casualties Australia believes this would
be
unjustifiable our message to Israel is
listen to the world do not go down this
path the United Nations says there is no
safe place for gazans to evacuate too
with so many people amassed along the
border the un's humanitarian Chief has
warned of a spillover into
Egypt given the scale of the devastation
the un's trade agency says Gaza will
need International Investment on the
scale of Europe's postwar Marshall plan
to recover after the fighting but for
most gazans the future is far from their
mind they're struggling just to survive
every day our correspondent Aman ISF
joins us now from Jerusalem Aman what
more do we know about the situation
right now in this
Hospital well uh the IDF has stormed the
nassa hospital which is uh essentially
the largest still functioning Hospital
in Gaza right now they said They carried
out a precise operation using uh Special
Forces uh and that they made all efforts
to keep the hospital in operation uh
their mission there they said early on
was to recover the bodies of hostages
that they claim have been killed by
Hamas so these are not living hostages
but just the bodies of uh those already
hostages already killed by uh Hamas
according to their intelligence um uh
but when they were in there they also
took several people into custody as
suspects uh now we're also hearing from
the staff of the hospital hital there
that's run by the Gaz and& Health
Ministry which is in turn run by Hamas
which is considered a terrorist
organization by Israel and several other
countries uh They said that the uh
storming of that hospital began with
tank fire on this Hospital which killed
uh at least one person that we know so
far a patient they claim and uh we have
to remember that this hospital is not
just being used as a hospital but also a
shelter for many hundreds of civilians
that have been fleeing uh the war t
areas across the country okay and Israel
also says that it does plan to move
forward with its offensive on Rafa we've
talked about the growing number of
international calls not to do that uh
what more can you tell us about um what
Israel is saying about
this well that's that's correct um the
uh uh plans to move ahead with this uh
ground incursion into Rafa have uh
there's been many warnings from Israel's
closest allies including Germany uh
which sent its foreign minister to
Israel to discuss uh the this assault on
Rafa and to warn Israel not to go ahead
with it until more Aid can be brought
into the area and until uh Israel can
come up with a credible plan that would
allow civilians to exit this area uh
safely to another safe area in Gaza the
problem there is that there are ESS no
more safe areas in Gaza a lot of the
land is strewn with unexploded
ordinances uh Israeli Defense Forces are
operating across the country right now
um and most of the country is Rubble
Rafa is really the only city left where
there's functioning infrastructure and
that's why 1.3 million gazin have fled
there and are living in dire conditions
uh Israel has recently uh succeeded in
blocking more food Aid that would come
into Gaza and help uh Supply the needs
of those over a million people who are
there the UN said that it would not be a
party to another Force displacement uh
but Israel said it had it will go
through uh with this ground offensive MH
and there have been reports of fresh
strikes uh Israeli strikes on on Lebanon
can you give us an update on the
situation
there that's right there seems to be an
ongoing exchange of fire and of bombings
across the Lebanese Southern border the
Israeli northern border which has been
going on basically since the o just
after the October 7th Hamas Terror
attacks Hezbollah is a strong Iran bed
uh militant Group which Israel consider
considers a terrorist group uh which
controls the south of Lebanon and it has
fired into Israel Israel has responded
but just recently uh uh yesterday there
was uh an attack by Hezbollah which
reached deeper into Israeli territory
than we've seen so far killing one IDF
Soldier and Israel responded ferociously
with uh several attacks across the south
of Lebanon killing 10 civilians
including several children they also
were able to kill three Hezbollah
militants at least three uh including
one senior Commander which has uh
greatly angered the leadership of
Hezbollah and said Israel is going to
pay the price for that attack I mean
thanks so much for that update that's
DW's Amy and EF reporting from Jerusalem
there